# Week 2B Notes (9/2/21)

## I. Overview

- Any questions?
- Review recent HW

<hr>

## II. Homework

- [CS #4 - "Hello Node"](../core-skills/4-hello-node.md)
  - Review *What is Node.js?*
  - "Hello Node"
  - Creating Node projects:
    - two ways to create a **package.json** file:
      - `npm init`
      - `npm init -y`
    - some edits we did:
      - `"scripts":"start"`
      - "Bad" JSON in the **package.json** file? What's the error message?
     - Utilizing node packages (i.e. "libraries")
       - `npm install <package-name> --save`
       - `npm i <package-name>` // quicker!
     - Reinstalling packages after **node_modules** folder has been deleted
       - `npm install` or just `npm i` 
   - Review HW questions
- [CS #5 - "First Node Web Server"](../core-skills/5-first-node-web-server.md)
  - Your first web server, deployed to Heroku
  - Let's walk through the code:
    - what does the `const port ...` line do?
    - note that we are hard-coding our HTML page - a better practice is to have it saved as an HTML file, and then load it at runtime with the built-in [File system](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html) (`fs`) module. We will be be doing it this way soon
    - The `onRequest()` handler:
      - note how much control we have over what gets sent to the client:
        - we can send HTTP respons headers, status codes, and then the actual content
   - Demo: cloneing the respository, making changes, pushing the changes
 - [CS #6 - First Node Web Service](../core-skills/6-first-node-web-service.md) - due tonight!
 - [CS #7 - Create a "Random Joke" JSON Web Service](../core-skills/7-create-random-joke-web-service.md) - due Saturday night!
 - [CS #8 - Adding developer "tooling" ](https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-430-Fall-2021/blob/main/core-skills/8-add-developer-tooling.md), [CS #9 - Continuous Integration with CircleCI](https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-430-Fall-2021/blob/main/core-skills/9-continuous-integration.md), and *Simple HTTP HW* (see myCourses for PDF) are all due prior to next Thursday's class (3B), so work ahead!
 
 <hr><hr>

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
| [**Week 2A Notes**](2A.md)   |  [**IGME-430 Home**](../README.md) | [**Week 2C Notes**](2C.md)
    
